over the last 4 years I've used more
than 200 no code tools to build my own
business and I've trained more than 500
entrepreneurs to launch theirs and raise
millions of dollars so in this video I'm
going to save you a bunch of time and
money by giving you the best ones to
launch your next startup idea and you
might want to stick around till the end
cuz I have some hidden gems that allow
you to launch 10 times quicker now the
first tool is also known as the
Photoshop of website building build by
designers for designers providing you
with an incredible flexibility to build
Pixel Perfect websites we have web flow
so as you see here when we jump in you
can build really beautifully animated
websites but the main thing about
webflow is that they give you lots of
flexibility in terms of design animation
and that's often times what designers
are really looking for so this is kind
of the Builder to build $10,000 websites
for example and you can do all that
without writing any code so just
dragging and dropping but the cool thing
is you also get access to the code
itself and for a lot of people they love
that now web flow is definitely now
focused on building out deeper logic so
that people can build more complex web
apps with this product so we actually
use webflow to build out our website as
you can see this is the editor so it
pretty much looks like Photoshop uh it's
a little bit more complex than you might
want if you're looking for something
simpler but we'll get into that in just
a second you can also use it to build
super complex websites so for example my
buddy Saro cloned the interface of the
PlayStation which you can see right here
it is a little bit more on the complex
side and that just means that it takes
about 3 to 6 months to learn so just
keep that in mind if you're choosing web
flow as the main tool brings me to the
next tool called card with two RS and it
is a simple website and landing page
builder and before you say you can't
really build interesting things with
this well Justin Welsh built a $1.8
million business and the backbone of his
build is card so even though it has zero
learning curve pretty much it is a very
powerful tool as well so here you can
choose a bunch of different templates
that they have available you can start
from a template or you can start from
scratch as you can see from this
interface it's really really simple to
understand so here for example I can
just start with a template drag and drop
you can add elements very simply it's
just so intuitive you don't really have
to think too too much it also has
animations you'll also get good
responsive design which means that it'll
look good on a mobile phone as well as a
desktop and so for complete beginners
this is a really good option for you
because you can literally jump into it
and build something within just 30
minutes with like now the downside of
this platform is that it's really only
made for simple websites and landing
pages and it obviously has limitations
when it comes to the design capabilities
but overall a really solid option now if
you're looking for something for a
little bit more functionality and design
flexibility than card but a little bit
less of a learning curve than web flow
then this next tool might be exactly
what you're looking for it's a platform
that over the past couple of years has
really made a name for itself especially
when they launched one of the first AI
Builders if you didn't guess it already
it's called framer and they were one of
the first to build this prompt-based AI
generated website builder the interface
is that perfect balance between having a
little bit more functionalities uh not
being as simple it probably takes about
a month or a couple of weeks to learn
framer so that's really one of the
positive things that I like about it
another AI feature I really like is that
they have this plugin that allows you to
do HTML paste so you can go to your
website you can grab the HTML and you
could just plug it right into framer so
if you wanted to migrate your website to
framer you could do that a good example
of a website built with framer is L
files as you can see really nice
animations here and that's why I really
like framer I think it's that great in
between now the uh Pros is that it is
easier to learn than web flow but
because you probably love the magic of
AI let's go ahead and test out that
Builder framer build a website for my
business called we are no code we teach
entrepreneurs how to launch their
startups with no code tools boom and as
you can see here it's pumped out a first
version of this website it's written
copy it's created different sections and
then this is pretty much your starting
point you can continue to build on top
of this so that's why this platform is
incredibly powerful and we recommend it
and because some of you may be trying to
build something that's more complex than
a website we're going to be talking
about the next section which is web apps
first one on this list is probably the
most powerful no code Builder out in the
market today it's called bubble.io so
bubble is an all-in-one Builder meaning
that you have access to the front end
which is the design the middleware which
are more like the workflows and the back
end which are sort of the servers or the
database all in one inside bubble you
also have a bunch of different plugin so
you can choose from more than a thousand
different plugins to give access to
deeper functionalities so you can bring
in realtime geolocation you could tap
into stock market information and create
a trading app you can also create
complex workflows and that's the reason
why so many Founders have been able to
build quite scalable businesses David
the founder of teal for example raised
$1 million from investors with a
platform built with bubble and you can
even build AI platforms Albert for
example even built an AI startup called
synth flow that he recently raised $1.8
million again completely built with
bubble so the pros of building with
bubble is that it's a very powerful
platform you have lots of flexibility in
what you build but unfortunately the
cons are that it comes with a deep
learning curve meaning that it takes
about 3 to 6 months to become very
proficient in bubble which has its
benefits but also its drawbacks but if
you're not trying to become a web
developer then this next platform might
be perfect for you to be able to build
your web app without writing a single
line of code it is way way more
intuitive and easier to learn and it's
often compared to the Lego of the no
code building that's right we're talking
about a platform called software you can
use this platform to build things like
portals sales crms uh employee
directories now the software editor is
so simple to use as you can see here you
can simply add blocks the adaptation of
those blocks can be super easy and this
is one of those tools where you really
get a great return on investment meaning
that you invest a couple hours and you
can already build a first first web app
and this project in fact that I'm
showing you is a full directory of all
the no code tools that you can actually
check out in the description below that
we built fully in software so here you
can search for the tool you're looking
for for your next project there are
different categories so if we want to
use a an automation tool it's going to
categorize by automation tools but one
of the most exciting things that it's
just released is actually their AI
generator that's right you can build
full web apps leveraging AI so there's a
lot that you can do in sofware and for
beginners it is such a delight to work
with a tool that gives you such a high
return on investment now up until now
you'll notice that we've mainly been
talking about building on the web so the
next section is going to be targeting
mobile app Builders and the first one up
is called a dollo it's a platform that
allows you to create from already
created components an app from scratch
so this is what the editor actually
looks like inside of a doo as you can
see there are pre-created components
that you can choose from and you can
just pretty much add them onto these
these different screens and create these
different pages and every time that you
create a new screen for example you can
just add elements to that screen so it's
really drag and drop point click you can
add some logic behind it you can also
preview your app of course so as you're
actually building this allows you to
save a lot of time so all in all quite
intuitive of a platform as you can see
and yeah you can publish these apps
inside the app store or Android store as
well which is what a lot of people are
looking for now let me show some
examples of of both apps Joy Blossom is
a meditation app built in ad dollo so
this is a good example of what you can
build leveraging this tool smart dish is
an app also built with adalo so this is
really to order food now the second
mobile app builder on this list is
called Glide and it's quite similar to
adalo it has an even more intuitive
interface to build with so glide's
interface is also super nice as you can
see here uh if you jump in you have the
navigation so these are pretty much the
different screens that you can can see
you can see the layout of that so as you
can see all this data is now represented
here if we click through this we're
going to be able to go to the page that
gives us the details from the design
perspective as you can see here there's
some nice styling that you could use so
if you wanted to make it more of a grid
form all this data you could just click
on that and again so this it's really
easy for you to navigate this platform
and to understand the additional options
that you have as well you can actually
build pretty awesome things leveraging
this platform it has a learning curve
that's quite similar to that of a dollar
so like 1 month pretty much now the one
thing I'd mention about Glide is that
they don't support publishing in the IOS
and Android store anymore they used to
but they now took that functionality
away and very similarly to adalo because
they're quite easy to learn and quick to
build they also come with the fact that
hey you can't build as deep of
functionality as you might want and
people often ask me should I use a dollo
or should I use Glide there's only a
couple of subtle differences and frankly
both are great platforms so if you're
trying to make a decision between both
of those why don't you just spend about
20 minutes in each editor now there's
another platform that's had a meteoric
rise to Fame in the no code space
specifically for mobile app Builders and
it's called flutter flow this is
probably the most powerful no code
mobile app builder in the Market at the
moment so this is the interface in
flutter flow as you can see it's a
little bit more complex as you might
imagine the upside of building inside
flutter flows you have way more
functionality so you can build complex
API called
uh the downside is that it probably
takes about 3 months to learn to become
very good at flutter flow they also have
this cool feature here which allows you
to build a full page with AI so you only
just have to prompt it and it's being
used by Enterprises by entrepreneurs
small medium businesses alike and as you
can imagine it's a platform with deep
logic and a little bit more of a
learning curve but also has some very
exciting AI features that are being
built right inside of it meaning that
you can customize everything and
anything and yes yes I'm about to unveil
the tools that allow you to build 10
times quicker but before that I want to
talk about some tools in the category of
automation the First Tool in this
category is largely known as the leader
in this space it's called zapier and
they Market themselves as the glue of
the internet essentially connecting
information from one app to another
integrating apps with each other and
allowing them to communicate back and
forth just like you would do with an API
call it can be used for things like
marketing automation sales automation uh
for business owners you know it
departments in general and it is very
simple to use that's why it's gained a
lot of popularity another thousands of
use cases but let's explore a couple
that they're showing here on the website
now as you can see the first thing that
it's showing me is the AI Builder so
basically I could just prompt it if this
happens then do that uh so I'm going to
jump in here and grab a trigger so
basically when this specific trigger
event happens it's going to create an
action on the other hand just remember
that okay so one of the examples that I
want to use here is the way that we
onboard people when they join our
program so we have a slack Community
where we provide one-on-one support via
video and so here we have a trigger that
when someone is added to slack and they
join as a new user it's going to create
a private channel for them then it's
going to send them a message from one of
us welcoming them and and outlining the
setup steps that we want them to take
once they're inside the channel now what
I love about zapier is that it's simple
to use it's easy to understand and it
really helps you go through it as well
as the AI that they just released now
zapier is incredibly easy to use but I'd
say if there's one drawback is that it's
a little bit expensive and this next
tool might actually be a better option
for you it's called make which is also
called integromat is also an incredible
platform to be able to create
automations it requires a little bit
more learning than zapier but is a lot
cheaper allows you to use pre-existing
templates as you can see here we're
creating a workflow and the example that
you can see is that if someone fills out
a specific form it's going to do a
number of things it's going to notify
the team in parallel it's going to
create a record in your database it's a
lot cheaper as a product and that's why
I really like it when you jump in you
can choose to start from a template or
you can build a scenario from scratch so
let's go ahead and start one let's add a
trigger event now the trigger event
could basically be with all of these
different Integrations right so these
are all different apps that you could
connect to so make is basically quite
similar to zapier it's a bit cheaper
there are slightly fewer Integrations
but frankly I really like it so if
you're a total beginner zaper might make
sense if you have a little bit more
confidence and are willing to test
something different then I would go for
make now for those of you who are
totally new to automation it pretty much
works like this if something happens
then I want something else to happen and
that's exactly the name of this next
platform if this then that iftt this is
another option for you if you're trying
to create automations it's also quite
simple it has fewer Integrations than
you might see on zappier it's also a
little bit cheaper and ultimately these
three platforms work in a very similar
way but trust me when you start setting
up automations it's going to make your
life so much easier and now we finally
reached the bonus tools these four gems
that are going to allow you to save a
lot of time when you're building first
up is reloom reloom is really cool it's
basically a library of different
elements you have uh basically
structural elements for things like web
flow you have an AI site Builder that
you can then export to web flow
extensions figma kits everything so I
really love this tool if you click into
the AI builder for example let's go to
that one the first thing it does is that
it's going to create a full site map
then it's going to suggest an about
section it's going to suggest courses
page now the second thing it'll do is
that it can generate a wireframe based
on that so as you can see here the first
page it basically built out the entire
structure of the website ower your
startup Journey with no code pretty
similar to what our website actually
says so it's really really well thought
out and all of this with just one prompt
so super powerful website I would
definitely recommend for you guys to
come and check it out and next up is a
similar product built for bubble and
it's called Atomic Fusion it's a
collection of different templates of
different components so you can jump in
here and we can go ahead and explore
some of the different things they have
for bubble there's a marketplace where
you can actually buy and sell things but
there's so many free elements here that
can be super valuable if you're at the
beginning of your uh building and
they're organized nicely like block
components for example if you're just
looking for a specific uh component also
full Pages there are UI kits there are
elements that you can use if you're
building in bubble why waste your time
start from complete scratch and we know
that the designing inside a bubble can
sometimes be a little frustrating so
speeding up the process and using other
people's work can be super valuable now
another platform I want to introduce you
to save time is flow base they have
templates and components not only for
web flow but also for framer and for
figma this can speed things up
dramatically for you so definitely check
out flow base you could check out their
components they have different
wireframes as well illustrations
boosters and yeah building has become
such a treat now because you can
basically just use other people's
beautiful work for free and uh build
beautiful websites web apps and this is
a great resource for those three tools
check out as many of these as you can
and it's going to speed up your process
10-fold now knowing all of these tools
I've just presented is amazing and of
itself but even more amazing is getting
the help and support that you need as
you're going along your building process
so that you can make money and optimize
your systems with these no code tools
and that's exactly why we created a free
course that you'll find below called how
to launch your startup as a
non-technical entrepreneur and in this
course we're going to break down the
steps for you so again all the tools and
the free cores can be found Below in the
description and if you don't think it's
possible to generate millions of dollars
with no code then check out these three
startups cuz they've done exactly that
and now my friends it's your turn to
take action let's go
