right so starting and growing this
YouTube channel has thanks to you guys
completely and utterly changed my life
for the first three years while I was on
YouTube I grew from zero to 1.2 million
subscribers that was while having a
full-time job and since then I'm going
all in on this internet business author
podcaster youtubery type stuff I've
still only really spent somewhere
between 3 and 10 hours per week on my
YouTube channel and so in this video I
want to break down the different ways
that I was thinking about this in terms
of Building Systems and leverage and how
I was able to make the most of my time
and energy especially in those early
days when I had a full-time job and I
was trying to grow this as a side Hustle
[Music]
a puppy
hey friends welcome back to the channel
so this video is going to be a breakdown
of the framework that I used to grow
this YouTube channel to pretty big
levels in my spare time part one the
YouTube and business success framework
so success on YouTube and success in
business generally I think can be boiled
down to three things firstly you've got
to do the right things and this is
sometimes known as strategy secondly you
have to do those things right which is
sometimes known as execution and thirdly
you have to do those things for a long
time and this is often known as
consistency now with this magical
ingredient combination of strategy
execution and consistency you can make
any business including a YouTube channel
including any creative endeavoring any
tech company any business at all that's
what it takes for a business to grow and
to flourish and obviously there is an
element of luck involved with all of
this kind of business and YouTube
success but actually the right strategy
reasonable execution and reasonable
consistency all of these things increase
your odds of getting lucky and I like to
think of strategy execution and
consistency as the three levers of
success if you pull these levers in the
right way you're massively increasing
the odds and the problem ability that
you're going to succeed in whatever
Endeavor you set your mind to but if we
want to pull these levers then we need
to input a few different ingredients and
some of the ingredients that go into
these three levers of success are number
one skill number two time number three
energy and sometimes number four money
now there are some businesses that take
quite a lot of money to get started with
like if you open a restaurant you can't
do that without money and so you need to
get investors in and all that kind of
fun stuff YouTube thankfully is not one
of those you don't need a lot of money
to at least get started with a YouTube
channel you can start inputting money
further down the line in terms of
Outsourcing and upgrading your gear and
all this fun stuff but you really don't
need it to get started there are also
some businesses that take quite a lot of
skill and that skill has Gatekeepers in
it for example if you decided you wanted
to start a business of being a private
neurosurgeon there's not a lot you can
do about that if you're just sitting in
your bedroom trying to learn on the
internet because you need a
qualification and rightly so and you
need years and years of training Beyond
medical school to be able to even
qualify for the thing and so it's
actually a very high skill barrier to
getting into becoming a neurosurgeon and
for a business like a YouTube channel
yes you need quite a lot of skill in
that you need to know the skill of
making videos in public speaking and
talking camera and editing and all that
stuff but crucially learning that skill
you can learn on the internet for free
it does not have any Gatekeepers you do
not have to apply to YouTube School
literally anyone in the world with
access to a phone and an internet
connection can learn the skills needed
to be a YouTuber and so really the only
real thing that holds people back is
these two things time and energy because
fundamentally if you had time and energy
you could learn the skill and if you had
loads of time and energy you could also
make the money that you need to because
often money is an exchange of Time Value
all that fun stuff and if you want to
succeed in business or with a YouTube
channel in your spare time you need to
find a way to make the most of your
limited time and energy like for example
if you had unlimited time and unlimited
energy honestly it would not be that
hard growing a YouTube channel you just
put in tons and tons of work and
actually people like Mr Beast have
basically put unlimited amounts of time
and energy to grow their channels from
zero to absolutely insane levels but
it's a lot harder to actually do that
stuff in your spare time because
obviously your time is limited because
you have a day job and also because you
have a full-time job it's sometimes hard
to get home and have enough energy to
sit down and like Spiel to the camera or
sit down and spend eight hours editing a
video and so when I was first starting
this channel in my final year of med
school I knew that the three things I
needed were strategy execution and
consistency and I knew that I had very
limited time and very limited energy and
the two main ways that I found to make
the most of my time and energy were
firstly leverage and secondly personal
productivity part two how to make the
most of your time and energy by applying
leverage all right so firstly what do we
mean by leverage Leverage is basically
where you put in the same amount of work
as someone else but if you have more
leverage that means that your input of
work gets more output than the other
person's input of work it's like having
a tractor for example a tractor is a
form of Leverage within agriculture
before the tractor was invented people
had to hoe and sew and rake and hake the
land completely by hand and so a single
person could only do so much work in a
given day but then you plop that person
on top of a tractor and now that same
person can do the work of 100 people in
a single day and the tractor is a form
of Leverage the person is still doing
one day's worth of work but they're
getting 100 days worth of output by
using a tractor rather than by using a
rake and a hick and when it comes to
YouTube and business in general there
are two main things that you can do to
increase your leverage the first one is
by Building Systems now this is what I
learned from reading this freaking
amazing book The e-myth Revisited by
Michael Gerber why most small businesses
don't work and what to do about it the
world's number one small business Guru
honestly if I'd known I'd be raving
about a book like this a few years ago
I'd have thought I was mental because
this looks like one of those boring
business books it's it's not boring at
all it's just so good it's like
incredibly exciting because it talks
about the power of systems and the power
of Leverage and one of the stories that
he talks about in the book is the
incredible example of McDonald's now
McDonald's is sick because basically any
McDonald's you go to in the world from
Alaska to Pakistan to Timbuktu you get
basically the same experience you can
get the same Big Mac you can get the
same fries you can get the same drink
and the reason McDonald's is such a
powerful franchise along with Starbucks
and any other kind of franchise model is
because they've created systems there is
a system in McDonald's for frying the
sausage there is a system for building
the burgers there is a system for
toasting the thing there's a system for
literally everything McDonald's
employees get like a massive ass
handbook which talks all about the
systems and operations and processes
that are involved in McDonald's and this
is how businesses grow businesses grow
by Building Systems and operations and
it can sound boring and it certainly
sounded boring to me back in the day but
then I applied it to my YouTube channel
and I was like oh my God systems are
changing my life and even in medicine we
have systems for everything if you have
a system if you have a checklist if you
have a step of processes to follow now
all of a sudden the same person can do
more work because they have a system
that's helping them that's providing
leverage so they don't have to think
about every step in the hierarchy and so
the question we're going to be asking
ourselves and especially the question I
found myself asking a lot after reading
the email Revisited is how can I build
systems to increase my leverage when it
comes to my YouTube channel and so over
time I've built a system for idea
generation I've built a system for
scripting my videos I've got a system
for like titles and thumbnails if you
look on the channel a lot of the
thumbnails look fairly similar that's
because there's a system there is a tool
there is a template I don't need to try
and reinvent the wheel every time I make
a thumbnail because that's a waste of
time yes if I had 80 hours 100 hours 150
hours a week to apply to my YouTube
channel then yeah maybe I'd have
different thumbnails for every video but
broadly no one really cares if the
thumbnails are the same similarly over
time I developed system for editing the
videos and for templates and for using
the same color grade every time and by
learning these sort of tricks and
techniques over the first couple of
years of growing the channel I realized
that actually I could spend less time
and energy doing the work because the
system would take care of quite a lot of
the process along the way if you're
interested in learning more about
systems by the way this is exactly the
stuff we teach on my part-time YouTuber
Academy linked down below if you want to
check it out but the second main way
that we can apply Leverage is people now
people are an incredible form of
Leverage because if you again imagine
the McDonald's scenario it's not like
Ronald McDonald is sitting there in all
five million franchises of McDonald's
making the hamburgers that just would
not work Ronald McDonald has hired a
bunch of people to be able to enter the
system and to be able to do the thing
and follow the steps and now Ronald
McDonald is able to massively leverage
himself so even though he invented the
Original Hamburger now there are 5
million employees around the world who
are able to build the same Hamburger
because there are people who have been
hired to follow a system and of all of
the things that have helped me grow my
YouTube channel while doing that in my
spare time finding a way to leverage
people has been the single biggest
needle mover and practically what this
looks like in YouTube is in particular
Outsourcing the editing of videos so for
example I have not edited a video on
this YouTube channel since like 2019
because for the first two years I was
editing all my own videos and then I
realized oh my God this is taking up so
much of my time and then I read this
book and one of my mentors talked me
into actually trying to Outsource my
editing and then I outsourced my editing
and then oh oh my God my life completely
changed because now I had loads more
spare time to be able to do the things
that I actually enjoyed about making
videos like the writing and the reading
and research and putting things together
and it also freed up my time to spend
more time with family and friends and
not burn out and take care of my health
and you know all of that fun stuff and
this is one of the things that our
alumni of our part-time YouTuber Academy
say because we have a whole like session
where we teach people how to Outsource
editing and whole framework and tools
and templates all that kind of stuff and
we get so many comments of people being
like Oh my God I was like reluctant to
Outsource my editing because I thought
oh I'm the only one who can edit like me
and then I tried it and I was like oh my
God and now it's completely changed my
life so if you're watching this and you
have a business or you have a YouTube
channel or anything like that and you
have some amount of money then what you
can do is that you can Outsource the
bits of your business or your YouTube
channel that you don't personally to be
doing to someone else who's an expert at
doing those sorts of things and
hopefully the value that you personally
can then generate by having your time
freed up is more than the amount that
person costs and this is just how
business works for example if I spent an
extra hour or two trying to research a
new video and then write the video that
gives this YouTube channel a way higher
return than for example me spending
those two hours editing a video and
actually I first discovered the power of
Outsourcing when I read the four hour
work week at the age of around 17 and
then in my first business which was a
company that helped people get into med
school me and my brother built some
software like medical school question
Banks and we actually hired a bunch of
outsourced people to do data entry so
trying to take kind of questions from
pre-existing exam papers and input them
into a database this would have taken
dozens and dozens of hours I would not
have had the time to do this while in
med school but the fact that I was able
to pay some amount of money to get
someone else to do that meant that I
could focus on the coding which was
where I was adding unique value but when
I first started my YouTube channel I
knew in the back of my mind I need to
Outsource my editing at some point but
it just took me two years to get there
because I just didn't take it seriously
and I really wish I'd seen a video I
really wish someone had told me they're
like sat me down and I was like look
edit the first 10 videos yourself that's
fine but then from that point on you
need to Outsource your editing because
you're completely wasting your own time
if you're doing your own editing and it
took me two years to learn that lesson
and this is a story I tell around
YouTuber Academy all the time that like
I really want people to Outsource their
editing before the two-year Mark if they
can if they can afford it no when it
comes to Outsourcing editing or really
anything else in your business there is
one particular platform that you can use
that I would recommend and you might
have come across it before they're
called Fiverr they have been around for
a very long time in fact my brother when
he was like 14 years old made his first
few dollars on the Internet by actually
being a freelancer on Fiverr where he
was doing psychic readings for five
dollars or something like that but in
the last like decade plus Fiverr is
transformed from a place where kids like
my brother offer psychic readings for a
Fiverr into a fully fledged freelance
marketplace where almost any skill Under
the Sun you can find someone who's a
specialist in that skill who you can
then hire to do the thing for you now a
few months ago it was very exciting
because we got an email from the team at
Fiverr basically saying that hey we'd
love to do one of these videos with you
and you might have seen some of these
videos on YouTube like Peter McKinnon's
done one Daniel schiffer's done one
where they you know like I hired
strangers to edit my commercials and it
you know those videos are super
interesting I've watched basically all
of them but we were trying to think for
this channel what would actually be
useful a way of kind of being
educational with how you can use a
platform like fivo to Outsource
something like video editing and the
solution we've come up with is as
follows so so far we have talked about
the leverage component of making the use
of your time and energy we've talked
about how you've got limited time
because you've got a day job or whatever
and if you want to make the most of your
time and energy you can build systems
and you can Outsource you can hire
people but as a bit of a way of showing
you how you could potentially Outsource
video editing if you want I've got five
tips that I'm going to share around
personal productivity but instead of
just my editor editing those five tips
as part of this video we thought it
would be more interesting if I filmed
those five tips as kind of YouTube
shorts and we sent it to five different
editors on Fiverr at different price
points to see what kind of video editing
do you get for different price points if
you hire Freelancers on Fiverr and I'm
hoping that this is going to be a bit of
a fun experiment B just add a little bit
more Vibes to the video and see if you
are watching this and you're thinking of
taking a YouTube channel seriously or
potentially a business and you have not
yet experimented with Outsourcing
hopefully if this experiment works it
will show you that Outsourcing stuff is
actually not that hard and when you
start experimenting with Outsourcing
whether it's in your YouTube channel or
in your business or even in your
personal life by hiring a virtual
assistant I've dabbled with that before
it's great then applying this leverage
of people being able to hire Specialists
to do a thing that you don't necessarily
want to do or that you're not
particularly good at can be a massive
way of boosting your own average and for
making the most of your limited time and
energy so I'm now going to record these
five tips for boosting your personal
productivity to make the most of your
limited time and energy and then I'm
going to send those to five different
Freelancers on Fiverr and then we're
going to come back in a few days and
we'll see how the editing of those tips
particularly looks so see you in a few
days alright we have all the footage I'm
gonna live react to it and we'll see
what these editors have come up with
alright so the first editor is send
through DMs part three how to make the
most of your limited time and energy by
boosting your personal productivity so
I've got five key tips here that I
genuinely used all the time when I was
growing this YouTube channel while
working full-time job and that I still
use to this day and each of these five
segments are going to be edited oh I
like the background music this is nice
by a different editor so let's see what
happens tip number one is to make the
most of small pockets of time now back
when I was working as a doctor I would
have these five to ten minutes lots of
time in between some of my patients
maybe I was waiting for blood results to
come back or I was waiting for a patient
to come back from being wheeled to the
ultrasound scan and in that time I had
the option of making a coffee and going
on my phone and scrolling Twitter and
Instagram and just generally wasting
time but most of the time what I would
do is because I knew that I cared about
growing my YouTube channel and being
consistent with it I would make the most
of that five to ten minutes of time and
I would use that to write a few bullet
points for a video or alternatively for
idea generation or going on canva or
adobe spark or whatever happened with
you pretty good it's not it's not
ridiculously on brand but In fairness we
didn't give them our assets and so he's
created this completely from scratch so
again this is pretty solid using and
editing a thumbnail like a lot can
actually be done in five and ten minutes
here and there and one of the mistakes
that we make when it comes to
productivity is thinking that we need a
whole block of uninterrupted time to be
able to do something so that was editor
number one and honestly it's not too bad
like you could Outsource your editing to
someone with this kind of quality and it
actually would be a pretty solid way of
at least starting out a YouTube channel
if this is potentially the first person
that you're hiring as part of your
Outsource team let's check out editor
number two all right tip number two is
multitask learning through audio so
we've already talked about how one of
the things around success on YouTube and
business in general is skill and so you
need to find a way to continuously learn
the skills that you need to improve in
the case of YouTube it might be that
you're watching a course like my
part-time YouTuber Academy
alternatively watching nice watching
this YouTube channels that teach you
about the algorithm and stuff for
listening to podcasts or reading books
written by so I like how this editor has
really understood my style there are a
few tweaks that we could make to it but
broadly it's a pretty you know
directionally correct people like Daryl
Eves they're about how YouTube works but
again all of that stuff takes time and
so the way that I found to minimize the
amount of time that this would take is
to multitask my learning along with
other things that I was doing using the
power of audio so that would mean that I
would listen to podcasts and I would
listen to audiobooks and because I have
YouTube premium I can listen to YouTube
videos in the background on my phone and
so for example when I was driving to
work I'd often be listening to the video
creators podcast and that's keeping me
up to date with what's happening in the
YouTube algorithm and how are people
growing their channels or if for example
I'm doing the laundry and dishes around
the house I will often even to this day
have some kind of YouTube tutorialy Type
Thing open on my phone and I'd have my
airpods in and I'd be listening to that
while I'm doing other random stuff
around the house and so that's another
way that I was able to boost my own
personal productivity by actually
overlapping my learning time when it
came to improving in these skills
alongside the other thing things that I
was doing which meant that it didn't
take extra time to learn the skills of
YouTube that just kind of happened by
default alongside everything else that I
was doing again this is pretty good I
prefer this one to the first edit so
this is my favorite one so far because
this editor has really understood my
style and he's really tried hard to
include like the animated background
components and the icons and the Emojis
and all that kind of fun stuff and also
he's done that clever thing where he
sort of masks me out or keeps me out
whatever the phrases and then has the
graph in the background that's all very
classy and nice and stuff all right
let's look for edit number three and
point number three tip number three is
something that I like to call productive
procrastination and this is when
unsurprisingly your procrastination is
productive and so for me I would
procrastinate a lot you know I'd come
home from work and I'd be like oh I
should probably edit a video but like I
can't be bothered right now and so
instead of for example playing video
games which has nothing to do with my
YouTube channel and is not at all
productive instead I would watch YouTube
videos I would watch YouTube videos from
creators that I admired and as I'm
watching those videos I'm getting ideas
for content and I'm getting ideas for oh
that's a cool thing I can try in my edit
or alternatively I'm browsing like web
design inspiration because that's the
thing that I like to do it's pretty
procrastination because as I'm browsing
web design inspiration I'm getting ideas
for kind of gradients I could use and
fonts and colors and highlights and
underlines and stuff that I can use
within my own videos and so whatever
your channel is about whatever your
business does try and ask yourself that
if you want to make the most of your
limited time and energy is there a way
that you could add in some
procrastination some productive
procrastination into your life again I'm
not saying that every single minute of
the day needs to be work work and I'm
not saying that there's anything wrong
with resting and recharging you know all
about that stuff and feeling good etc
etc but in my case for example if I can
feed two birds with one scone and if I
can procrastinate in ways that feel good
and reach outing to me but in ways that
are also helpful to my YouTube channel
or the thing that I'm trying to do on
the side then that's another way of me
making the most of my limited time and
energy that's also really solid
um I love the use of b-roll he's gone
through my previous videos and he's
found b-roll from those videos and has
added some effects to that which is
really good and again generally has
understood the brand so we didn't again
we didn't send these guys any assets at
all we just told them hey do what you
want and he's done a really good job of
knowing what fonts I use and you know I
appreciating what goes into an Ali
abdall edit which is which is great
right tip number four is to use the
power of momentum and what this means is
that if you're trying to grow a YouTube
channel or a business and again make the
most of your limited time and energy
because you're trying to do it in your
spare time you want to try your best to
do a little bit every day because when
you're doing a little bit every day
you're benefiting from the momentum
that's created by that whereas if you
leave it for like a whole week or two
weeks or three weeks or four weeks or
whatever yes it's totally fine to take a
break but then the problem becomes that
it feels like way more of a heavy lift
when you get back into it this is partly
why I aim to film a video every single
day it might be assured it might be real
but at least I'm aiming to film
something every day because I know that
when I take two weeks of filming because
I'm on holiday the next time I come
around and I try to film a video it's
going to be an enormous amount of effort
and so especially for the first three
years while I was trying to grow this
channel while I had a full-time job I
was really focusing on you know
consistency and just showing up every
day and doing at least something maybe
that something was just writing one
bullet point for a script maybe it was
filming even just the introduction to a
video maybe it was editing for five
minutes but just that little bit and
showing up even when I didn't
necessarily feel like it allowed me to
sustain the momentum and momentum often
drives motivation which makes it easier
to take action and then all this stuff
goes into this virtuous cycle so try
your best to do it just a little bit
every day if you can do that you're
making the most of your limited time and
energy so clearly they edited this as a
short uh which In fairness was what
we're going to do initially and then I
realized I actually filmed for longer
than a minute for most of them but glad
that he edited this one as a short and
honestly this is a pretty solid shot
we've been making some Banger shorts on
the channel recently and this is almost
to the standard of one of our full-time
editors who we literally have OnStar
full-time to make sure it's like this I
like the dynamism in the edit I like the
text I like the fact that he's really
just kind of used his own creativity to
add in those animations even though I
gave him literally zero instructions
about exactly how to do this so well
played
and tip number five is one of my
absolute Classics that I've been
peddling for years and that is to focus
on enjoying the journey yes it's all
well and good building a YouTube channel
and yes a YouTube channel can completely
change your life but actually you also
want to be trying to enjoy the journey
along the way trying to enjoy every step
of the journey as much as you can now
this is great from a life satisfaction
and happiness perspective but it's also
great in helping you make the most of
your limited time and energy because
when the work that you're doing is
enjoying and engaging that work then
becomes energizing and that is a way
where we can solve the energy problem
yes you get home from the end of the day
of work or school or whatever you're
doing and you feel drained of energy
because your job sucks or whatever that
might be but if you can find a way to a
enjoy the job itself which is great but
B try and find a way to get enjoyment
and engagement from the work you're
doing on your business or your YouTube
channel that will actually replenish
your energy in a way that like few other
things would so for example for me I
found ways to make editing videos really
enjoyable even though two years later I
decided to Outsource the editing
especially in the early days for me
editing became quite fun I would find a
way to track my progress I would find a
way to turn it into a game and find a
way to take personal satisfaction and
joy in the little things I was doing to
the videos you know the little bits of
salt I was adding into the edits and
that made video editing a profoundly
energizing activity so I didn't feel as
if it was draining my energy and I
didn't have enough energy to do editing
obviously it was still nice when I was
able to Outsource it because then I
could do other energizing activities
that were higher leverage but until then
and until I was making enough money from
the channel to be able to afford
Outsourcing editing finding a way to
enjoy the journey is just the ultimate
hack to personal productivity again this
is also not bad it hasn't quite gotten
the style of the channel but there were
definitely some elements in this some of
the b-roll some of the kind of overlays
with a little thing on the corner that
were a really solid understanding of
what my vibe is and then trying to
recreate that in editing software and
again I didn't give this person any
instructions at all literally just gave
them the the raw camera file from from
my recording and they've turned it into
this so if you're considering
Outsourcing editing this is a pretty
reasonable range of what you can expect
if you Outsource it on Fiverr for
example and honestly this leverage of
people being able to leverage up your
own time by using people that you get
from places like Fiverr means that
whatever you're doing whatever kind of
business you're trying to run it becomes
way easier to do as a part-time thing
and then because you've had experience
of hiring and Outsourcing why you've
built the business part-time if you do
decide to go full time on it like I've
done with my business and my YouTube
channel then you've got the skills to be
able to work with more people and
continue to leverage up your time and
your ability to create value for the
world with whatever your business does
so I'm going to put links to all of the
Freelancers that we've used for this
video down in the video description so
you can check out them specifically if
you'd like to and also if you're
interested in potentially using Fiverr
to Outsource editing or literally any
other aspect of your business then you
can head over to the link in the video
description and if you use the coupon
code Ali 10ali10 at checkout then up
until the 31st of December 2023 you can
get 10 off any higher that you make on
Fiverr and if you're a Creator or an
influencer you might also like to check
out the Fiverr influencer program this
is aimed at micro to mid-sized creators
so you don't need an enormous audience
of millions of people but it does mean
that if you do want to share authentic
and engaging content about Fiverr then
there's a ton of benefits for you like
Fiverr credits and commissions and flat
rate revenues and so much more the
application process is super fast and
easy and there is a link to the program
in the description if you want to check
it out now if you enjoyed this video you
might like to check out my completely
free five-day part-time YouTuber crash
course which is a completely free email
course you just enter your email and
then every day for five days I will send
you a long ass email with loads and
loads of tips and strategic advice about
how you can grow a YouTube channel
completely from scratch and in your
spare time that's completely free if you
don't like it you can unsubscribe
anytime but people have literally
emailed us back saying oh my God I would
have paid for this and it's completely
free just five days of emails and you
get incredible information and if you
enjoyed this video you might like to
check out this video over here which is
all about what I would do if I were
starting YouTube completely from scratch
today and it's a step-by-step system
that I would use to grow my YouTube
channel so thank you so much for
watching and I'll see you in that video
over there bye
